Digital camera, device for making digital recordings of images. Texas Instruments Incorporated patented the first filmless electronic camera in 1972. In 1981 Sony Corporation brought out a commercial electronic model, which used a mini computer disk drive to store information captured from a video camera. As the cost of electronic components declined and the resolution of the cameras improved, the Eastman Kodak Company began selling professional digital cameras in 1991. Kodak and Apple Computer, which supplied the software for transferring the digital images to a personal computer, introduced the first consumer model in 1994. Digital cameras soon gained market share, gradually relegating most film camera sales to cheap, disposable, single-use models. However, with the introduction of smartphones containing ever more-advanced cameras, digital camera sales fell by 90 percent in the 2010s.Unlike film cameras, digital cameras do not have chemical agents (film) and sometimes lack a viewfinder, which is typically replaced by a liquid crystal display (LCD). At the core of a digital camera is a semiconductor device, such as a charge-coupled device (CCD) or a complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS), which measures light intensity and colour (using different filters) transmitted through the cameras lenses. When light strikes the individual light receptors, or pixels, on the semiconductor, an electric current is induced and is translated into binary digits for storage within another digital medium, such as flash memory (semiconductor devices that do not need power to retain memory).
Cameras are everywhere. There is one in your laptop, two in your phone, and probably a pair in your tablet that you have never used. There is maybe one in your doorbell, even, or strapped to your head while you bomb the slopes. We are taking more pictures in more ways and sharing them in more places than ever. Yet most of us use our cameras with the bare minimum of knowledge, just pointing and shooting and hoping for an Instagrammable moment. And even if youare buying a camera because you are ready to move beyond your iPhone and take pictures you will want to save forever, it is hard to know what to do.
Camera companies donot exactly make life easy, either. Spec sheets are laden with alien terms like ISO and fnumbers, and once you manage to get a grasp on what they mean, you are still confronted with a spectacular variety of options. So we have put together this guide to help you navigate the quagmire of excess information, acronyms, and jargon. It will enlighten you about which specs are important when, and what cameras are suitable for whom. Sound good? Then read on!